# Accounts on Bitsong
Accounts owned by account owners, period. 
___

## Introduction
In their primitives, accounts are a uniquie on-chain identity, controlled by a pair of keys, one secret `Ksk` & one public `Kpk`. These keys can be used to *sign* arbitrary data, in such a manner that **generates a value mathematically provable** to have derived from a specific public key. This basic principle is the foundation of cryptography, yet it does not come without challenges. Specifically, the nature of key pairs requires the owner of the keypair to keep the secret key, well secret! 

Over the past decade, our technological landscape has revealed keeping this private key secure is a tremendous limiting factor for the adoption of sovereign oriented solutions cryptography provides, where attack vectors such as wallet drainers and large scale phising campaigns constantly lurk for those less experienced or fortified from these types of exploits.

# Types Of Accounts 

## A. Base Account

This is a default account on Bitsong. Controlled by a single keypair, these accounts can perform any action possible on Bitsong by broadcasting a prepared message with a signature hash of the message, generated by the private key.

## B. Multi-Signature / DAO's

These accounts are almost identical to Base accounts, however their differences exist in how actions are authorized by the account. Unlike base accounts, where only a signature generated from the single keypair is required to authorize actions, Multisignature accounts require x of n signatures in order for actions or messages to be performed by the account.

## C. Interchain Accounts 

Interchain account allow any account on Bitsong to generate and control an account, on any other chain interoperable with the Interchain Account feature. 

## D. Grammos Account 

## E. Authmos Account 