# Accounts on Bitsong
Accounts owned by account owners, period. 
___

## Introduction
In their primitives, accounts are a uniquie on-chain identity, controlled by a pair of keys, one secret `Ksk` & one public `Kpk`. These keys can be used to *sign* arbitrary data, authorize transactions to occur, in such a manner that **generates a value mathematically provable** to have been derived from a specific public key. This basic principle is the foundation of cryptography.

__This section introduces the types of accounts available for use on Bitsong, with the intention to create awareness of the features and tradeoffs of each account type.__

# Types Of Accounts 

## A. Base Account

This is a default account on Bitsong. Controlled by a single keypair, these accounts can perform any action possible on Bitsong by broadcasting a prepared message with a signature hash of the message, generated by the private key. 

The following cryptographic key algorithms are supported by default, and can be generated using any library, not just Bitsong's:

|  Key Algorithm | Common use  |    |   |   |
|---|---|---|---|---|
|  __[Secp256k1](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Secp256k1)__ | Bitcoin, Ethereum, Cosmos  |   |   |   |
|  __[Ed25519](https://github.com/allinbits/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/crypto/keys/ed25519/ed25519.go)__ |  Solana, Cardano, Stellar |   |   |   |


*More native key algorithm support coming soon.*

## B. Multi-Signature / DAO's

These accounts are almost identical to Base Accounts, however their differences exist in how actions are authorized by the account. Unlike base accounts, where only a signature generated from the single keypair is required to authorize actions, Multisignature accounts require `x of n` signatures in order for actions or messages to be performed by the account.

### Membership based

DAO's and multi-signature accounts are programmable, meaning there are infinte ways to configure what keys are accepted, and how. For example, a DAO can have a **membership based configuration,** meaning a specific list of addresses are authorized to submit their signature. Another example is having a system where only **owners of a specific token** are able to submit their signature, creating a more fluid approach to who gets to decide on when actions are performed. These tokens can be fungible, or non-fungible, and can be programmed to further customize how actions are performed on behalf of a membership-based DAO.

## C. Interchain Accounts 

Interchain account allow any account on Bitsong to generate and control an account, on any other chain interoperable with the Interchain Account feature. This unlocks access to applications specific to other sovereign blockchains, without the need for any intermediary or centralized transaction processor. To learn more about Interchain Accounts, checkout the [official documentation](https://ibc.cosmos.network/main/apps/interchain-accounts/overview.html)


## Further Info 

To learn more about accounts on Bitsong, you can reference the [accounts section in the interchain academy tutorials](https://tutorials.cosmos.network/academy/2-cosmos-concepts/2-accounts.html).
